<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 SYSTEM "http://www.gutenberg.org/tei/marcello/0.4/dtd/pgtei.dtd" [

<!ENTITY u5  "http://www.tei-c.org/Lite/">

]>

<TEI.2 lang="en">
<teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
    <titleStmt>
      <title>The Christian Foundation, April, 1880</title>
    </titleStmt>
    <editionStmt>
      <edition n="1">Edition 1</edition>
    </editionStmt>
    <publicationStmt>
      <publisher>Project Gutenberg</publisher>
      <date>February 19, 2009</date>
      <idno type="etext-no">28126</idno>
      <availability>
        <p>This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and
        with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it
        away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg
        License online at www.gutenberg.org/license</p>
      </availability>
    </publicationStmt>
    <sourceDesc>
      <bibl>
        Created electronically.
      </bibl>
    </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
  <encodingDesc>
  </encodingDesc>
  <profileDesc>
    <langUsage>
      <language id="en"></language>
      <language id="la"></language>
    </langUsage>
  </profileDesc>
  <revisionDesc>
    <change>
      <date value="2009-02-19">February 19, 2009</date>
      <respStmt>
        <name>
            Produced by Bryan Ness, David King, and the Online Distributed
            Proofreading Team at &lt;http://www.pgdp.net/&gt;.
            (This book was produced from scanned images of public domain
            material from the Google Print project.)
        </name>
      </respStmt>
      <item>Project Gutenberg TEI edition 1</item>
    </change>
  </revisionDesc>
</teiHeader>

<pgExtensions>
  <pgStyleSheet>
    .boxed           { x-class: boxed }
    .shaded          { x-class: shaded }
    .rules           { x-class: rules; rules: all }
    .indent          { margin-left: 2 }
    .bold            { font-weight: bold }
    .italic          { font-style: italic }
    .smallcaps       { font-variant: small-caps }
  </pgStyleSheet>

  <pgCharMap formats="txt.iso-8859-1">
    <char id="U0x2014">
      <charName>mdash</charName>
      <desc>EM DASH</desc>
      <mapping>--</mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2003">
      <charName>emsp</charName>
      <desc>EM SPACE</desc>
      <mapping>  </mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2026">
      <charName>hellip</charName>
      <desc>HORIZONTAL ELLIPSIS</desc>
      <mapping>...</mapping>
    </char>
  </pgCharMap>
</pgExtensions>

<text lang="en">
  <front>
    <div>
      <divGen type="pgheader" />
    </div>
    <div>
      <divGen type="encodingDesc" />
    </div>

    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">The Christian Foundation,</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">Or,</p>
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">Scientific and Religious Journal</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">Vol. 1. No 4.</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">April, 1880.</p>
    </div>
    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <head>Contents</head>
      <divGen type="toc" />
    </div>

  </front>
<body>

<pb n='121'/><anchor id='Pg121'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Is There A Counterfeit Without A Genuine?</head>

<p>
My object in this lesson is to present the myths, the ancient,
fictitious and fanciful narratives concerning the gods, in such
a manner as to enable you to see the utter absurdity of the
idea that the religion of the Bible is of mythical origin.
<emph>Myths</emph> are fictitious narratives, having an analogy more or less
remote to something real. From this definition you discover
that a myth is <emph>always</emph> a counterfeit, and as such always appears
in evidence in favor of something more or less remote,
that is true. Now, if the Bible had a mythical origin, it sustains
some analogy to something found in the mythical or fictitious
and fanciful narratives concerning the gods, and is
therefore the myth of a myth; the counterfeit of a counterfeit.
If such be the truth in the case, where do we find the
origin of the myths from which <q>Bible myths</q> have descended?
Is it found in the true God presiding over the elements
of nature and the destinies of men, as well as the events
of creation and providence? Or, can it be possible that we
have many counterfeits <emph>without a genuine</emph>? Many myths sustaining
no analogy, either near or remote, to anything real?
It is an absurdity, destructive of the term employed, because
<emph>myths</emph> cease to be <emph>myths</emph> without some near or remote relation to
realities. They <emph>must</emph> sustain some analogy to something real.
And <emph>counterfeits</emph> also cease to be <emph>counterfeits</emph> when it is shown
<pb n='122'/><anchor id='Pg122'/>
that they sustain no relation, through analogy or likeness, to
anything that is genuine. In the mythical systems of olden
times we have, in the midst of a vast deal of false and fanciful
narrative concerning subordinate and secondary gods, evidence
of a supreme God presiding over all things; and the
secondary gods performing many things which belonged to
the province of the <q>Almighty One,</q> with many degrading,
vile and corrupting habits.
</p>

<p>
A letter written by Maximus, a Numidian, to Augustin,
reads thus: <q>Now, that there is a sovereign God, who is
without beginning, and who, without having begotten anything
like unto Himself, is, nevertheless, the Father and the
former of all things, what man can be gross and stupid
enough to doubt? He it is of whom, under different names,
we adore the eternal power extending through every part of
the world, thus honoring separately by different sorts of worship
what may be called His several members, we adore Him
entirely. May those subordinate gods preserve you under
whose names, and by whom all we mortals upon earth adore
the common Father of gods and men.</q> In this letter we
have a clear presentation of the mythical system concerning
the ancient gods, and also the <q>analagous relation</q> to the
<q>Master God.</q> Each god having his particular dominion
over place or passion, appears before us as a representative
of the supreme, or <q>Master God;</q> and by worshiping each
member or God they claimed to adore entirely the <q>common
Father of gods and men.</q> Augustin answers, In your public
square there are <emph>two statues</emph> of Mars, one naked, the other
armed; and close by the figure of a man who, with three
fingers advanced towards Mars, holds in check that divinity
so dangerous to the whole town. With regard to what you
say of such gods being portions of the only <q>true God,</q> I
take the liberty you gave me to warn you not to fall into such
a sacrilege; for that only God, of whom you speak, is doubtless
He who is acknowledged by the whole world, and concerning
whom, as some of the ancients have said, the ignorant
agree with the learned. Now, will you say that Mars, whose
<pb n='123'/><anchor id='Pg123'/>
strength is represented by an inanimate man, is a portion of
that God? That is to say, the dead statue controls Mars, and
Mars is a subordinate god representing the infinite God, and
is, therefore, a part of that God. Augustin adds, Not the
Pantheon and all the temples consecrated to the inferior gods,
nor even the temples consecrated to the twelve greater gods
prevented <q>Deus Optimus Maximus,</q> God most good, most
great, from being acknowledged throughout the empire.
Voltaire says, <q>In spite of all the follies of the people who
venerated secondary and ridiculous gods, and in spite of the
Epicurians, who in reality acknowledged none, it is verified
that in all times the magistrates and wise adored one sovereign
God.</q> Secondary gods were <emph>myths</emph>, counterfeits, sustaining
the <emph>relation</emph> of counterfeits. The ancients attributed their
own passions to the <q>Master God,</q> and had subordinate gods
representing passions. They also had a god for each part of
His dominion; and these gods they called members of the
true God, and claimed to worship Him, by worshiping all the
members or gods. Mars was the god of war; Bacchus was the
god of drunkenness. They had a god for this and a god for
that. The ancient pagans seemed to think that infinite divisibility
belonged to the <q>true God,</q> for they distinguished
between passions, and divided up the universe among the gods
until they had it crammed full of subordinate and ridiculous
gods, each one a member of Jehovah, and each member a part
of the great mythical system.
</p>

<p>
Now, in order to establish the proposition that our religion
is of mythical origin, it is necessary to show, first, that the
Bible was written this side of or during the age of myths, and,
having done this, it is necessary to show that the Hebrew
people were a mythical people; neither of which can be accomplished.
It will not be amiss to present in this connection
a statement given by Justin to the Greeks. He says: <q>Of
all your teachers, whether sages, poets, historians, philosophers,
or law-givers, by far the oldest, as the Greek historians show
us, was Moses.... For in the times of Ogyges and
Inachus, whom some of your poets have supposed to have
<pb n='124'/><anchor id='Pg124'/>
been earth-born&mdash;that is, to have sprung from the soil, and
hence one of the oldest inhabitants&mdash;<emph>the aborigines</emph>, Moses is
mentioned as the leader and ruler of the Jewish nation.</q> He
is mentioned as a very ancient and time-honored prince in the
Athenian, Attic and Grecian histories. Polemon, in his first
book of Hellenics, mentions Moses as the leader and ruler of
the Jewish nation. Ptolemæus, in his history of Egypt, bears
the same testimony. Apion, an Egyptian writer, in his book
against the Jews, says <q>Moses led them.</q> Dr. Shaw, a modern
traveler, says the inhabitants of Corondel, on the eastern
side of the Red Sea, to this day preserve the remembrance of
the deliverance of the children of Israel from their bondage
in Egypt. Diodorus, the most renowned Greek historian, who
employed thirty years epitomizing the libraries, and traveled
over Asia and Europe for the sake of great accuracy, who
wrote forty volumes of history, says he learned from the
Egyptian priests that Moses was an ancient law-giver.
</p>

<p>
It seems to us that, no sane man, who is acquainted with the
ancient mythicals, can regard the religion of the Bible as a
child of mythical descent. It is as deadly in its influence
upon those myths, and all mythical worship, as it could be
made by an infinite mind.
</p>

<p>
Voltaire says <q>the character of the mythical gods is ridiculous;</q>
we will add, it is ridiculous in the extreme. Listen&mdash;Hesiod,
in his theogony, says: <q>Chronos, the son of Ouranos,
or Saturn, son of Heaven, in the beginning slew his father,
and possessed himself of his rule, and, being seized with a
panic lest he should suffer in the same way, he preferred devouring
his children, but Curetes, a subordinate god, by craft,
conveyed Jupiter away in secret and afterwards bound his
brother with chains, and divided the empire, Jupiter receiving
the air, and Neptune the deep, and Pluto Hades.</q>
</p>

<p>
Pros-er-pi-ne, Mella-nip-pe, Neptune, Pluto and Jupiter
are all set forth in the mythical writings as adulterers.
Jupiter was regarded as more frequently involved in that
crime, being set down as guilty in many instances. For the
love of Sem-e-le, it is said that he assumed wings and proved
<pb n='125'/><anchor id='Pg125'/>
his own unchastity and her jealousy. These are some of the
exploits of the sons of Saturn. Hercules was celebrated by
his three nights, sung by the poets for his successful labors.
</p>

<p>
The son of Jupiter slew the Lion, and destroyed the many-headed
Hydra; was able to kill the fleet man-eating birds,
and brought up from hades the three-headed dog, Cerberus;
effectually cleansed the Augean stable from its refuse; killed
the bulls and stag whose nostrils breathed fire; slew the
poisonous serpent and killed Ach-e-lò-us. The guest-slaying
Bu-sí-ris was delighted with being stunned by the cymbals of
the Sat-yrs, and to be conquered with the love of women; and
at last, being unable to take the cloak off of Nessus, he
kindled his own funeral pile and died. Such are specimens of
the ancient myths. Their character is such as to leave an impassible
gulf between them and the character of the God
revealed in our religion. No development theory, seeking
the origin of our religion in the old mythical system, can
bridge across this chasm. It is as deep and broad as the distance
between the antipodes. There is no analogy between
these counterfeits or myths and the <q>true God,</q> save that remote
power of God which is divided up and parceled out
among them. Their morals were the worst. The whole
mythical system is simply one grand demonstration of human
apostacy from the <q>true God.</q> Homer introduces Zeus in
love, and bitterly complaining and bewailing himself, and
plotted against by the other gods. He represents the gods as
suffering at the hands of men. Mars and Venus were
wounded by Di-o-me-de. He says, <q>Great Pluto's self the
stinging arrow felt when that same son of Jupiter assailed
him in the very gates of hell, and wrought him keenest
anguish. Pierced with pain, to the high Olympus, to the
courts of Jupiter groaning he came. The bitter shaft remained
deep in his shoulder fixed, and grieved his soul.</q> In the
mythical system the gods are not presented as creators or first
causes. Homer says, They were in the beginning generated
from the waters of the ocean, and thousands were added by
deifying departed heroes and philosophers. The thought of
<pb n='126'/><anchor id='Pg126'/>
one supreme Intelligence, the <q>God of Gods,</q>, runs through
all the system of myths. It is found anterior to the myths,
and, therefore, could not have had its origin with them. The
character ascribed to our God, in our scriptures, has no place
among the ancient myths. They hold the <q>Master God</q>
before us only in connection with power, being altogether
ignorant of His true character. They even went so far as to
attribute much to Him that was ridiculous. One of the
ancients said, <q>The utmost that a man can do is to attribute
to the being he worships his imperfections and impurities,
magnified to infinity, it may be, and then become worse by
their reflex action upon his own nature.</q> This was verified in
the ancient mythical religion, without exception, and without
doubt.
</p>

<p>
<q>The character of all the gods was simply human character
extended in all its powers, appetites, lusts and passions.
Scholars say there is no language containing words that express
the Scriptural ideas of holiness and abhorrence of sin,
except those in which the Scriptures were given, or into which
they have been translated. These attributes must be known
in order to salvation from sin, so God revealed Himself and
gave the world a pure religion, as a standard of right and
wrong, and guide in duty, and rule of life.</q>
</p>

<p>
The history of the ancient nations of the earth gives a
united testimony that their original progenitors possessed a
knowledge of the one true and living God, who was worshiped
by them, and believed to be an infinite, self-existent
and invisible spirit. This notion was never entirely extinguished
even among the idolatrous worshipers. Greek and
Latin poets were great corrupters of theology, yet in the
midst of all their Gods there is still to be found, in their writings,
the notion of one supreme in power and rule, whom they
confound with Jupiter.
</p>

<p>
The age of myths began with the tenth generation after the
flood. The evidence of this is given by Plato from one of the
ancient poets in these words: <q>It was the generation <emph>then the
tenth</emph>, of men endowed with speech, since forth the flood had
<pb n='127'/><anchor id='Pg127'/>
burst upon the men of former times, and Kronos, Japetus and
Titan reigned, whom men of Ouranos proclaimed the noblest
sons, and named them so, because of men <emph>endowed with gift
of speech</emph>, they were the first,</q> that is to say, they were orators,
<q>and others for their strength, as Heracles and Perseus,
and others for their art. Those to whom either the subjects
gave honor, or the rulers themselves <emph>assuming it</emph>, obtained the
name, some from fear, others from reverence. Thus Antinous,
through the benevolence of your ancestors toward their subjects,
came to be regarded as a god. But those who came
after adopted the worship without examination.</q> So testifies
one who was schooled in philosophy. Do you say there are
points of similitude between the Bible religion and the mythical?
It would be strange if there were none, seeing that the
mythical is truly what the term signifies, a counterfeit upon
the genuine, or Biblical.
</p>

<p>
The points of disagreement, however, are such as to demonstrate
the fact that the ancient mythical people knew not the
character of the Being, whom they conceived to be the <q>God
of Gods and the Father of Gods and men.</q> Those who confound
the Bible with the ancient myths upon the score of the
analogy that exists between it and the myths, remind me of a
very learned gentleman with whom I was once walking around
an oat field, when he remarked, <q><emph>there</emph> is a very fine piece of
wheat.</q> The man had been brought up in an eastern city, and
was unable to distinguish between oats and wheat. I knew a
gentleman who asked a man, standing by the side of an old-fashioned
flax-break, what he thought it was used for? The
man took hold of the handle, lifted it up and let it down a few
times, and said: <q>It looks like it might be used to chop up
sausage meat.</q> It is very natural for us to draw comparisons,
and when we do not make ourselves familiar with things and
their uses, we are very liable to be led into error by a few
points of similitude. All the infidels with whom I have become
acquainted look upon the Bible like the man looked upon
the flax-break, and like the man looked upon the oat field. If
one had looked upon the flax-break who was familiar with it,
<pb n='128'/><anchor id='Pg128'/>
he never could have dreamed of chopping sausage meat; and
if the other had been familiar with wheat and oats, as they present
themselves to the eye in the field in the month of June,
he never would have called the oats wheat. And if any sane
man will make himself familiar with both the Bible and the
old system of myths and mythical worship, he will never confound
the two. There are a thousand things, very different in
character and origin, which have points of similitude. But
similitude never proves identity short of completeness. While
the analogy between the ancient mythical system of gods and
their worship and the true God and His worship is restricted
to power and intelligence, there exists a contrast between them
deep as heaven is high and broad as the earth in point of moral
character, virtue, and every ennobling and lovable attribute.
</p>

<p>
There is an old myth in the Vedas&mdash;a god called <q>Chrishna.</q>
The Vedas claim that he is in the form of a man; that he is
black; that he is dressed in flowers and ribbons; that he is
the father of a great many gods. It is surprising to see the
eagerness with which some men bring up <q>Chrishna</q> in comparison
with the Greek term <q>Christos</q>&mdash;Christ, and confound
the two. The words are entirely different, save in a
jingle of sound. They are no more alike than the terms
<emph>catechist</emph>&mdash;one who instructs by questions and answers, and
the term catechu&mdash;a dry, brown astringent extract. We could
give many such examples in the history of unbelievers and
their war upon the Bible, but this must suffice for the present.
The truth is this: such men, as a general rule, neither understand
the Bible in its teachings and character, nor the ancient
mythical system. In it Jupiter, among the Romans, and
throughout every language, appears before us as the <q>Father
of Gods and men</q>&mdash;<q>the God of gods,</q> the <q>Master of the
gods.</q> Voltaire says: It is false that Cicero, or any other
Roman, ever said that it did not become the majesty of the
empire to acknowledge a Supreme God. Their Jupiter, the
Zeus of the Greeks and the Jehovah of the Phonecians, was
always considered as the master of the secondary gods. He
adds: But is not Jupiter, the master of all the gods, a word
<pb n='129'/><anchor id='Pg129'/>
belonging to every nation, from the Euphrates to the Tiber?
Among the first Romans it was <hi rend='italic'>Jov</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>Jovis</hi>;
among the Greeks, <hi rend='italic'>Zeus</hi>; among the Phonecians and Syrians and
Egyptians, <hi rend='italic'>Jehovah</hi>. The last term is the Hebrew scriptural name of
God&mdash;denoting <emph>permanent being</emph>&mdash;in perfect keeping with the
Bible title or descriptive appellation, <q><hi rend='smallcaps'>I am that I am</hi>.</q>
</p>

<p>
The ancient worshipers of the gods had lost all but the
name, <emph>power</emph> and relation, which they ever knew of Jehovah.
And they could do no more than clothe Jupiter with their own
imperfections and impurities&mdash;and then place him above all
the gods; it was necessary for them to view him as excelling
in all the characteristics of the secondary gods. And having
attributed to the gods all they knew of human passions and
corruptions, they clothed Jupiter himself with more villainy
and corruption than belonged to any other god. In this was
the great blasphemous sacrilege of ancient idolatry. They
thus demonstrated their own apostacy; and the fact that their
system of gods was a counterfeit, a mythical system. They
were destitute of any standard of right and wrong, having no
conceptions of the divine character which were not drawn
from their own imperfect and corrupt lives. The divine
character, as revealed in the revelation of Christ, and presented
to us as God manifest in the flesh, is at once the very
opposite of the characters given in the myths. The distance
between the two is the distance between the lowest degradation
of God-like power exercised in the lowest passions, and
the sublimity of Heaven's own spotless life. I love the religion
of the Scriptures, because it restores to the race the lost
knowledge of God and the additional life of Jesus&mdash;the only
perfect model known in the history of the race. It is the
life of God manifested in the flesh; make it <emph>your own</emph>, and it
will save you. Mr. English, an American infidel, said: <q>Far
be it from me to reproach the meek and compassionate, the
amiable Jesus, or to attribute to him the mischiefs occasioned
by his followers.</q>
</p>

<p>
It is now conceded that Jesus Christ was <emph>no myth</emph> by all
the great minds in unbelief. He lived. We love his life,
<pb n='130'/><anchor id='Pg130'/>
because all who would rob Him of His authority are compelled
to speak well of it. Rousseau, another infidel, says: <q>It is
impossible that he whose history the gospel records can be
but a man,</q> adding, <q rend='pre'>Does he speak in the tone of an enthusiast,
or of an ambitious sectary? What mildness! What
purity in his manners! What touching favor in his instructions!
What elevation in his maxims! What presence of
mind! What ingenuity, and what justice in his answers!
What government of his passions! What prejudice, blindness
or ill faith must that be which dares to compare Socrates
with the Son of Mary!</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>What a difference between the two! Socrates, dying without
a pain, without disgrace, easily sustains his part to the
last. The death of Socrates, philosophizing with his friends,
is the mildest that could be desired. That of Jesus, expiring
in torments, injured, mocked, cursed by all the people, is the
most horrible that can be feared. Socrates, taking the impoisoned
cup, blesses him who presents it to him with tears.
Jesus, in the midst of a frightful punishment, prays for his
enraged executioners. Yes, if the life and death of Socrates
are those of a wise man, the life and death of Jesus are those
of a God.</q> If such be the model, the pattern, the example
which I am to follow, let me live and die a Christian. I love
the religion of Christ, because its character compels its
enemies to speak thus of it. I love it because of its practical
influence in elevating all into the moral image of Christ. I
love it because it saves men through its influence from
abominable sins and consequent sorrows that would tear up
the hearts of thousands. I love it because it is the power of
God to save the soul. I love it because it leads men into
communion and fellowship with all the good. I love it because
it leads to heaven and to God.
</p>

</div>

<div>

<p>
Civilization, it is true, is an arbitrary term. Anthropologists
have not yet settled the boundary line between a savage
and a civilized people.&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Prof. Owen, F. R. S.</hi>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='131'/><anchor id='Pg131'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Design In Nature.</head>

<p>
It is scarcely necessary to designate instances in the works
of nature, in which there is an appearance of purpose, for
everything has this appearance. I will, however, mention
several cases as samples.
</p>

<p>
1. The adaptation of the covering of animals to the climates
in which they live. Northern animals have thicker
and warmer coats of fur or hair than Southern ones. And
here it should be remarked that man, the only creature
capable of clothing himself, is the only one that is not clothed
by nature. Singular discrimination and care indeed for non-intelligence!
</p>

<p>
2. The adaptation of animals to the elements in which
they live, the fish to the water, other animals to the air.
Would not an unintelligent energy or power be as likely to
form the organs of a fish for air as for water?
</p>

<p>
3. The necessity which man has for sustenance, and the
supply of that necessity by nature.
</p>

<p>
Here let it be noted how many things must act in unison
to produce the necessary result. The earth must nourish the
seed, the sun must warm it, the rain must moisten it, and
man must have the strength to cultivate it, and the organs to
eat it, and the stomach to digest it, and the blood-vessels to
circulate it, and so on. Is it credible that all these things
should <emph>happen</emph> without design?
</p>

<p>
4. The pre-adaptation of the infant to the state of things
into which it enters at birth. The eye is exactly suited to the
light, the ear to sound, the nose to smell, the palate to taste,
the lungs to the air. How is it possible to see no design in
this pre-adaptation, so curious, so complicated in so many
particulars?
</p>

<p>
5. The milk of animals suitable for the nourishment of
their young, provided just in season, provided without contrivance
on the part of the parent, and sought for without
instruction or experience on the part of its offspring! <emph>and all by
chance!!</emph>
</p>

<pb n='132'/><anchor id='Pg132'/>

<p>
6. The different sexes. In this case, as in the rest, there
is perfect adaptation, which displays evident design. And
there is more. What, I ask, is there <emph>in nature</emph> to cause a
difference in sexes? Why are not all either males or females?
or, rather, a compound? This case, then, I consider not only
an evidence of design, but likewise an evidence of the special
and continued <emph>volition</emph> of the Creator.
</p>

<p>
7. The destitution of horns on the calf and of teeth in
the suckling. All other parts are perfect at the very first;
but were calves and sucklings to have teeth and horns, what
sore annoyances would these appendages prove to their dams
and dames. How is it that all the necessary parts of the
young are thus perfect at the first, and their annoying parts
unformed till circumstances render them no annoyance&mdash;unformed
at the time they are not needed, and produced when
they are, for defense and mastication? Who can fail to see
intelligence here?
</p>

<p>
8. The teats of animals. These bear a general proportion
to the number of young which they are wont to have at a
time. Those that are wont to have few young have few teats;
those that have many young have many teats. Were these
animals to make preparations themselves in this respect, how
could things be more appropriate?
</p>

<p>
9. The pea and the bean. The pea-vine, unable to stand
erect of itself, has tendrils with which to cling to a supporter;
but the bean-stalk, self-sustained, has nothing of the kind.
</p>

<p>
10. The pumpkin. This does not grow on the oak; to
fall on the tender head of the wiseacre reposing in its shade,
<emph>reasoning</emph> that it should grow there rather than where it does,
because, forsooth, the oak would be able to sustain it. And
were he to undertake to set the other works of Providence to
rights which he now considers wrong, 'tis a chance if he
would not get many a thump upon his pate ere he should get
the universe arranged to his mind. And if, before completing
his undertaking, he should not find it the easier of the two to
arrange his mind to the universe, it would be because <emph>what
<pb n='133'/><anchor id='Pg133'/>
little</emph> brains he <emph>has</emph> would get thumped out of his cranium
altogether!
</p>

<p>
11. The great energies of nature. To suppose the existence
of <emph>powers</emph> as the cause of the operations of nature&mdash;powers
destitute of life, and, at the same time, self-moving,
and acting upon matter without the intervention of extrinsic
agency, is just as irrational as to suppose such a power in a
machine, and is a gross absurdity and a self-contradiction.
But to suppose that these lifeless energies, even if possessed
of such qualities, could, void of intelligence, produce <emph>such</emph>
effects as <emph>are</emph> produced in the universe, requires credulity capable
of believing anything.
</p>

<p>
12. The whole universe, whether considered in its elementary
or its organized state. From the simple grass to the
tender plant, and onward to the sturdy oak; from the least
insect up to man, there is skill the most consummate, design
the most clear. What substance, useless as it may be when
uncompounded with other substances, does not manifest design
in its affinity to those substances, by a union with which it is
rendered useful? What plant, what shrub, what tree has not
organization and arrangement the most perfect imaginable?
What insect so minute that contains not, within its almost invisible
exterior, adjustment of part to part in the most exact
order throughout all its complicated system, infinitely transcending
the most ingenious productions of art, and the most
appropriate adaptation of all those parts to its peculiar mode
of existence? Rising in the scale of sensitive being, let us
consider the beast of the forest, in whose case, without microscopic
aid, we have the subject more accessible. Is he a beast
of prey? Has the God of nature given him an instinctive
thirst for blood? Behold, then, his sharp-sighted organs of
vision for descrying his victim afar, his agile limbs for pursuit,
his curved and pointed claws for seizing and tearing his
prey, his sharp-edged teeth for cutting through its flesh, his
firm jaws for gripping, crushing, and devouring it, and his intestines
for digesting raw flesh. But is he a graminivorous
animal? Does he subsist on grass and herb? Behold, then,
<pb n='134'/><anchor id='Pg134'/>
his clumsy limbs and his clawless hoofs, his blunt teeth and
his herb-digesting stomach. So perfect is the correspondence
between one part and another; so exactly adapted are all the
parts to the same general objects; so wonderful is the harmony
and so definite and invariable the purpose obtaining throughout
the whole, that it is necessary to see but a footstep, or
even a bone, to be able to decide the nature and construction
of the animal that imprinted that footstep or that possessed that
bone. Ascending still higher in the scale, we come at last to
man&mdash;man, the highest, noblest workmanship of God on
earth&mdash;the lord of this sphere terrene&mdash;for whose behoof all
earthly things exist. In common with all animals, he has that
perfect adaptation of part to part, and of all the parts to general
objects, which demonstrate consummate wisdom in the
Cause which thus adapted them. His eyes are so placed as to
look the same way in which his feet are placed to walk, and
his hands to toil. His feet correspond with each other, being
both placed to walk in the direction, and with their corresponding
sides towards one another, without which he would hobble,
even if he could walk at all. His mouth is placed in the
forepart of the head, by which it can receive food and drink
from the hands.
</p>

<p>
But the hands themselves&mdash;who can but admire their wonderful
utility? To what purpose are they not adapted? Man,
who has many ends to accomplish, in common with the beast
of the field; who has hunger to alleviate, thirst to slake, and
has likewise other and higher ends, for the attainment of which
he is peculiarly qualified by means of <emph>hands</emph>. Adapted by his
constitution to inhabit all climes, he has hands to adapt his clothing
to the same, whether torrid, temperate or frigid. Possessed
of the knowledge of the utility of the soil, he has hands
to cultivate it. Located far distant oftentimes from the running
stream, these hands enable him to disembowel the earth
and there find an abundant supply of the all-necessary fluid.
Endowed with rational ideas, pen in <emph>hand</emph> he can transmit
them to his fellows far away, or to generations unborn. Heir
and lord of earth and ocean, his hands enable him to possess
<pb n='135'/><anchor id='Pg135'/>
and control the same, without which, notwithstanding all his
reason, he could do neither, but would have to crouch beneath
the superior strength of the brute, and fly for shelter to crags
inaccessible to his beastly sovereign.
</p>

<p>
The only creature that has the reason to manage the world,
has the physical organization to do it. No <emph>beast</emph> with man's
reason could do this, and no <emph>man</emph> with the mere instinct of a
brute could do it. How marvellous, then this adaptation!
How wondrous the adaptation of everything, and how astonishing
that any man, with all these things in view, can for one
moment forbear to admit a God. Let him try <emph>a chance experiment</emph>.
Let him take the letters of the alphabet and throw
them about promiscuously and then see how long ere they
would move of their own accord and arrange themselves into
words and sentences. He may avail himself of the whole
benefit of his scheme; he may have the advantage of an
energy or power as a momentum to set them in motion; he may
put these letters into a box sufficiently large for the purpose,
and then shake them as long as may seem him good, and when,
in this way, they shall have become intelligible language, I
will admit that he will have some reasons for doubting a
God. If this should seem too much like <emph>artificial</emph> mind,
he may take some little animal, all constructed at his hands,
and dismember its limbs and dissect its body, and then within
some vessel let him throw its various parts at random, and
seizing that vessel shake it most lustily till bone shall come to
bone, joint to joint, and the little creature be restored to its
original form. But if this could not be accomplished by mere
power, without wisdom to direct, how could the original adjustment
occur by chance? How could those very parts themselves
be <emph>formed for</emph> adjustment one to another?
</p>

<p>
Mathematicians tell us wondrous things in relation to these
hap-hazard concerns. And they demonstrate their statements
by what will not lie&mdash;figures. Their rule is this: that, as
one thing admits of but one position, as, for example, <hi rend='italic'>a</hi>, so
two things, <hi rend='italic'>a</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>b</hi>, are capable of two
positions, as <hi rend='italic'>ab</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>ba</hi>. But
if a third be added, instead of their being susceptible of only
<pb n='136'/><anchor id='Pg136'/>
one additional position, or three in all, they are capable of
six. For example, <hi rend='italic'>abc</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>acb</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>bac</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>bca</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>cab</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>cba</hi>. Add another
letter, <hi rend='italic'>d</hi>, and the four are capable of twenty-four positions or
variations. Thus we might go on. Merely adding another letter,
<hi rend='italic'>e</hi>, and so making <emph>five</emph> instead of four, would
increase the the number of variations <emph>five</emph>-fold. They would then amount
to one hundred and twenty. A single additional letter, <hi rend='italic'>f</hi>, making
<emph>six</emph> in all, would increase this last sum of one hundred and
twenty <emph>six</emph>-fold, making seven hundred and twenty. Add a <emph>seventh</emph>
letter, <hi rend='italic'>g</hi>, and the last-named sum would be increased
<emph>seven</emph>-fold, making the sum of five thousand and forty. If we go on
thus to the end of the alphabet, we have the astonishing sum
of six hundred and twenty thousand four hundred and forty-eight
trillions, four hundred and one thousand seven hundred
and thirty-three billions, two hundred and thirty-nine thousand
four hundred and thirty-nine millions and three hundred and
sixty thousand!!! Hence it follows that, were the letters of the
alphabet to be thrown promiscuously into a vessel, to be afterwards
shaken into order by mere hap, their chance of being
arranged, not to say into words and sentences, but into their
alphabetical order, would be only as <emph>one</emph> to the above number.
All this, too, in the case of only twenty-six letters! Take
now the human frame, with its bones, tendons, nerves, muscles,
veins, arteries, ducts, glands, cartilages, etc.; and having
dissected the same, throw those parts into one promiscuous
mass; and how long, I ask, would it be ere Chance would put
them all into their appropriate places and form a perfect man?
In this calculation we are likewise to take into the account
the chances of their being placed bottom upwards, or side-ways,
or wrong side out, notwithstanding they might merely
find their appropriate places. This would increase the chances
against a well-formed system to an amount beyond all calculation
or conception. In the case of the alphabet, the chances
for the letters to fall bottom up or aslant are not included.
And when we reflect that the blind goddess, or <q>unintelligent
forces,</q> would have to contend against such fearful odds in
the case of a single individual, how long are we to suppose it
<pb n='137'/><anchor id='Pg137'/>
would be, ere from old Chaos she could shake this mighty
universe, with all its myriads upon myriads of existences, into
the glorious order and beauty in which it now exists.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>An Atheist Is A Fool.</head>

<p>
He can't believe that two letters can be adjusted to each
other without design, and yet he can believe all the foregoing
incredibilities.
</p>

<p>
I might swell the list to a vast extent. I might bring into
view the verdure of the earth as being the most agreeable of
all colors to the eye; the general diffusion of the indispensibles
and necessaries of life, such as air, light, water, food,
clothing, fuel, while less necessary things, such as spices, gold,
silver, tin, lead, zinc, are less diffused; also, the infinite
variety in things&mdash;in men, for instance&mdash;by which we can distinguish
one from another. But I forbear. Is it reasonable
to conclude that, where there are possible appearances of
design, still no design is there? or even that it is probable
there is none?
</p>

<p>
I have said that there is as much evidence of purpose in
the works of nature as in those of art. I now say that there
is more, <emph>infinitely</emph> more. Should the wheels of nature stop
their revolutions, and her energies be palsied, and life and
motion cease, even then would she exhibit incomparably
greater evidence of design, in her mere construction and
adaptation, than do the works of art. Shall we then be told
that when she is in full operation, and daily producing millions
upon millions of useful, of intelligent, of marvelous
effects, she still manifests no marks of intelligence! In
nature we not only see all the works of art infinitely exceeded,
but we see, as it were, those works self-moved and performing
their operations without external agency. To use a faint
comparison, we see a factory in motion without water, wind or
steam, its cotton placing itself within the reach of the picker,
the cards, the spinning-frame and the loom, and turning out
in rolls or cloth. Such virtually, nay, far more wonderful, is
<pb n='138'/><anchor id='Pg138'/>
the universe. Not a thousandth part so unreasonable would
it be to believe a real factory of this description, were one to
exist, to be a chance existence, as to believe this universe so.
Sooner could I suppose nature herself possessed of intelligence
than admit the idea that there is <emph>no</emph> intelligence concerned
in her organization and operations. There must be a
mind within or without her, or else we have no data by which
to distinguish mind. There must be a mind, or all the results
of mind are produced without any. There must be a mind,
or chaos produces order, blind power perfects effects, and non-intelligence
the most admirable correspondence and harmony
imaginable. Skeptics pride themselves much on their reason.
They can't believe, they say, because it is unreasonable.
<emph>What</emph> is unreasonable? To believe in a mind where there
is every appearance thereof that can be? Is it more reasonable
to believe, then, that every appearance of mind is produced
without any mind at all? Skeptics are the last men in
all this wide world to pretend reason. They doubt against
infinite odds; they believe without evidence against evidence,
against demonstration, and then talk of reason!&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Origin Bachelor's
Correspondence with R. D. Owen.</hi>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Blunder On And Blunder On&mdash;It Is Human
To Blunder.</head>

<p>
Are all the mammoths one or two hundred thousand years
old, as Sir Charles Lyell conjectured? It was stated, in the
bygone, that the <q>diluvium</q> was very old, on account of the
absence of human remains, but since man's remains have been
found there, it is inferred that man is very ancient; whereas,
the truth is, the mammoth is <emph>very recent</emph>. In many instances
their bones are so fresh that they contain twenty-seven per
cent. of animal substance; in some instances the flesh is still
upon their bones, with their last meal in their stomachs.
</p>

<p>
Mr. Boyd Dawkins has furnished us with a thrilling narrative
of the discovery of a mammoth in 1846, by Mr. Benkendorf,
close to the mouth of the Indigirka. This mammoth
<pb n='139'/><anchor id='Pg139'/>
was disentombed during the great thaw of the summer. The
description is given in the following language: <q rend='pre'>In 1846 there
was unusually warm weather in the north of Siberia. Already
in May unusual rains poured over the moors and bogs; storms
shook the earth, and the streams carried not only ice to the
sea, but also large tracts of land. We steamed on the first
day up the Indigirka, but there were no thoughts of land;
we saw around us only a sea of dirty brown water, and knew
the river only by the rushing and roaring of the stream. The
river rolled against us trees, moss, and large masses of peat,
so that it was only with great trouble and danger that we
could proceed. At the end of the second day we were only a
short distance up the stream; some one had to stand with the
sounding-rod in hand continually, and the boat received so
many shocks that it shuddered to the keel. A wooden vessel
would have been smashed. Around us we saw nothing but
the flooded land.... The Indigirka, here, had torn
up the land and worn itself a fresh channel, and when the
waters sank we saw, to our astonishment, that the old river-bed
had become merely that of an insignificant stream....
The stream rolled over and tore up the soft, wet ground
like chaff, so that it was dangerous to go near the brink. While
we were all quiet, we heard under our feet a sudden gurgling
and stirring, which betrayed the working of the disturbed
water. Suddenly our jagger, ever on the look-out, called
loudly, and pointed to a singular and unshapely object, which
rose and sank.... Now we all hastened to the
spot on shore, had the boat drawn near, and waited until the
mysterious thing should again show itself. Our patience was
tried, but at last a black, horrible giant-like mass was thrust
out of the water, and we beheld a colossal elephant's head,
armed with mighty tusks, with its long trunk moving in the
water in an unearthly manner, as though seeking for something
lost therein.... I beheld the monster hardly
twelve feet from me, with his half-open eyes yet showing the
whites. It was still in good preservation....</q>
</p>

<pb n='140'/><anchor id='Pg140'/>

<p>
<q>Picture to yourself an elephant with a body covered with
thick fur, about thirteen feet in height and fifteen in length,
with tusks eight feet long, thick, and curving outward at their
ends, a stout trunk of six feet in length, colossal limbs of one
and a half feet in thickness, and a tail naked up to the end,
which was covered with thick tufty hair. The animal was fat
and well grown; death had overtaken him in the fulness of his
powers. His parchment-like, large, naked ears lay turned up
over the head; about the shoulders and on the back he had
stiff hair, about a foot in length, like a mane. The long outer
hair was deep brown and coarsely rooted. The top of the head
looked so wild and so penetrated with pitch that it resembled
the rind of an old oak tree. On the sides it was cleaner, and
under the outer hair there appeared everywhere a wool, very
soft, warm and thick, and of a fallow-brown color. The giant
was well protected against the cold. The whole appearance
of the animal was fearfully strange and wild. It had not the
shape of our present elephants. As compared with our Indian
elephants, its head was rough, the brain-case low and narrow,
but the trunk and mouth were much larger. The teeth were
very powerful. Our elephant is an awkward animal, but compared
with this mammoth, it is an Arabian steed to a coarse,
ugly dray horse. I had the stomach separated and brought on
one side. It was well filled, and the contents instructive and
well preserved. The principal were young shoots of the fir
and pine; a quantity of young fir cones, also in a chewed state,
were mixed with the moss.</q>
</p>

<p>
Mammoth bones are found in great abundance in the islands
off the northern coast of Siberia. The remains of the rhinoceros
are also found. Pallas, in 1772, obtained from Wiljuiskoi,
in latitude 64°, a rhinoceros taken from the sand in
which it had been frozen. This carcass emitted an odor like
putrid flesh, part of the skin being covered with short, crisp
wool and with black and gray hairs. Professor Brandt, in
1846, extracted from the cavities in the molar teeth of this
skeleton a small quantity of half-chewed pine leaves and coniferous
wood. And the blood-vessels in the interior of the
<pb n='141'/><anchor id='Pg141'/>
head appeared filled, even to the capillary vessels, with coagulated
blood, which in many places still retained its original
red color.
</p>

<p>
We find that Mr. Boyd Dawkins and Mr. Sanford assert
that the cave-lion is only a large variety of the existing lion&mdash;identical
in species. Herodotus says: <q>The camels in the
army of Xerxes, near the mountains of Thessaly, <emph>were attacked
by lions</emph>.</q>
</p>

<p>
Sir John Lubbock, in his Prehistoric Times, page 293,
says the cave-hyena <q>is now regarded as scarcely distinguishable
specifically from the <hi rend='italic'>Hyæna crocuta</hi>, or spotted hyena of
Southern Africa,</q> while Mr. Busk and M. Gervais identify
the <emph>cave-bear</emph> with the <hi rend='italic'>Ursus ferox</hi>, or grizzly bear
of North America. What is the bearing of these facts on the question
of the antiquity of the remains found in the bone caverns?
</p>

<p>
Do these facts justify men in carrying human remains,
found along with the remains of these animals in the caves,
back to the remote period of one or two hundred thousand
years?&mdash;a long time, this, for flesh upon the bones and food
in the stomach to remain in a state of preservation.
</p>

<p>
<q>So fresh is the ivory throughout Northern Russia,</q> says
Lyell, <hi rend='italic'>Principles, vol. 1, p. 183</hi>, <q>that, according to Tilesius,
thousands of fossil tusks have been collected and used in
turning.</q>
</p>

<p>
Mr. Dawkins says: <q>We are compelled to hold that the
cave-lion which preyed upon the mammoth, the woolly rhinoceros
and musk-sheep in Great Britain, is a mere geographical
variety of the great carnivore that is found alike in the
tropical parts of Asia and throughout the whole of Africa.</q>
Popular Science Review for 1869, p. 153. It has been customary
to speak of all these animals as <q><emph>the great extinct</emph>
mammalia,</q> and to regard them all as much larger than existing
animals of the same kind, but three of the most
important still exist, and the cave-lions, at least some of the
specimens, were smaller than the lion of the present. According
to Sir John Lubbock the <q>Irish elk, the elephants
and the three species of rhinoceros are, perhaps, the only
<pb n='142'/><anchor id='Pg142'/>
ones which are absolutely extinct.</q> Prehistoric Times, p.
290. <q>Out of seventeen principal <q>palæolithic</q> mammalia,
ten, until recently, were regarded <q>extinct;</q> but it is now believed
that the above-mentioned elk, elephants and rhinoceros
are the only extinct mammalia. Dr. Wilson affirms that
skeletons of the Irish elk have been found at Curragh,
Ireland, in marshes, some of the bones of which were in such
fresh condition that the marrow is described as having the appearance
of fresh suet, and burning with a clear flame.</q>
</p>

<p>
Professor Agassiz admits the continuance of the Irish elk
to the fourteenth century to be <q>probable.</q> It is certain that
this elk continued in Ireland down to what is claimed as the
age of iron, and possibly in Germany down to the twelfth
century. It is also certain that it was a companion of the
mammoth and of the woolly rhinoceros. The aurochs, or
European bison, whose remains are found in the river gravel
and the older bone caves, is mentioned by Pliny and Seneca.
They speak of it as existing in their time; it is also named in
the Niebelungen Lied. It existed in Prussia as late as 1775,
and is still found wild in the Caucasus. The present Emperor
of Russia has twelve herds, which are protected in the forests
of Lithuania. During the session of the International Archæological
Congress at Stockholm, in 1874, the members of the
body made an excursion to the isle of Bjorko, in Lake Malar,
near Stockholm, where there is an ancient cemetery of two
thousand tumuli. Within a few hundred yards from this is
the site of the ancient town. Several trenches were run through
this locality, and many relics obtained by the members of the
congress. On the occasion Dr. Stolpe, who was familiar with
the previous discoveries at this point, delivered a lecture on
the island and its remains. They all, he stated, belong to the
second age of iron in Sweden, and consisted of implements of
iron, ornaments of bronze, and animal bones; Kufic coins have
been found, along with cowrie-shells, and silver bracelets.
The number of animal bones met with is immense, more than
fifty species being represented, and what is especially noteworthy,
<emph>the marrow bones were all crushed or split</emph>, just as in
<pb n='143'/><anchor id='Pg143'/>
the palæeolithic times. The principal wild beasts were the
lynx, the wolf, the fox, the beaver, the elk, the <emph>reindeer</emph>, etc.
Dr. Stolpe refers the formation of this <q>pre-historic</q> city to
<q>about the middle of the eighth century after Christ,</q> and
says it was probably destroyed <q>about the middle of the
eleventh century.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>During this period the reindeer existed in this part of
Sweden.</q>
</p>

<p>
Recent scientific discovery demands that we should almost
modernize the animals we used to regard as belonging to a
period of a hundred thousand years ago.
</p>

<p>
<q>Scientists have been addicted to unwise and inconsiderate
haste in the announcement of new theories touching alleged
facts; they have blundered repeatedly in their efforts to confound
the Christian and set aside Moses. No less than eighty
theories touching that many facts and discoveries have been
developed during the period of fifty years, that were brought
before the Institute of France in 1806, and not one of them
survives to-day.</q> Truly the history of scientific investigation
reveals the same fallibility of human nature that is known in
the many errors found in the line of theological investigation.
Truth, in science and religion, stands true to her God&mdash;<emph>man
alone deviates</emph>.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Draper's Conflict Between Religion And Science.</head>

<p>
No one idea has produced a greater sensation among skeptics
and unbelievers than the idea of a conflict between science
and Christianity. The history of the affair reminds us of the
ghost stories that frighten people in their boyish days. There
was, in truth, no foundation for the sensation. Mr. Draper
never intended that his work entitled <q>Conflict between Religion
and Science,</q> should be construed to mean Conflict
between the Bible and Science, or between Christianity, as
set forth by the primitive Christians and science, but conflict
<pb n='144'/><anchor id='Pg144'/>
between apostate religion and science; or, rather, between
corruptors of the ancient religion and science.
</p>

<p>
He says, <q>I have had little to say respecting the two great
Christian confessions, the protestant and the Greek churches.
As to the latter, it has never, since the restoration of science,
arrayed itself in opposition to the advancement of knowledge.
On the contrary, it has always met it with welcome. It has
observed a reverential attitude to truth, from whatever quarter
it might come. Recognizing the apparent discrepancies
between its interpretations of revealed truth and the discoveries
of science, it has always expected that satisfactory explanations
and reconciliations would ensue, <emph>and in this it has not
been disappointed</emph>.</q> Will all who read these lines take notice
that Mr. Draper takes the Christian's side in the above statement.
<q><emph>In this it has not been disappointed.</emph></q> In what?
Answer&mdash;Its expectation that satisfactory explanations and
reconciliations would follow the discoveries of science, by
means of which apparent discrepancies between the church's
interpretations of revealed truth and the discoveries of
science would disappear. Mr. Draper adds, <q>It would have
been well for modern civilization if the Roman church had
done the same.</q> He guards his readers by the following: <q>In
speaking of Christianity, reference is generally made to the
Roman church, partly because its adherents compose the majority
of Christendom, partly because its demands are the
most pretentious, and partly because it has commonly sought
to enforce those demands by the civil power. None of the
protestant churches have ever occupied a position so imperious,
none have ever had such widespread political influence.
For the most part they have been averse to constraint, and
except in very few instances their opposition has not passed
beyond the exciting of theological odium.</q> Preface, pp. 10, 11.
</p>

<p>
On pages 215 and 216, speaking upon the great question of
the proper relations of Christianity and science, Mr. Draper
says: <q>In the annals of Christianity the most ill-omened
day is that in which she separated herself from science. She
compelled Origen, at that time (A. D. 231) its chief representative
<pb n='145'/><anchor id='Pg145'/>
and supporter in the church, to abandon his charge
in Alexandria and retire to Cæsarea. In vain through
many subsequent centuries did her leading men spend
themselves in, as the phrase then went, <q>drawing forth the
internal juice and marrow of the scriptures for the explaining
of things.</q> Universal history from the <emph>third</emph> to the <emph>sixteenth</emph>
century shows with what result. The dark ages owe their
darkness to this fatal policy.</q>
</p>

<p>
The pure Christianity, as well as Christians of 231 years,
are exonerated by Mr. Draper. Unbeliever, will you remember
this? Many unbelievers, like drowning men catching at
straws, have endeavored to make it appear that Mr. Draper's
book, entitled <q>Conflict Between Religion and Science,</q> makes
a square fight between the Bible and science. So far is this
from the truth that, on the contrary, it does not even set up
a square issue between Protestantism and science; its issue lies
between Roman Catholic religion and science. Hear him:
<q>Then has it, <emph>in truth</emph>, come to this, that Roman Christianity
and science are recognized by their respective adherents as being
absolutely incompatible; they can not exist together; one must
yield to the other; mankind must make its choice&mdash;it can not
have both. While such is, perhaps, the issue as regards
Catholicism, a reconciliation of the reformation with science
is not only possible, but would easily take place if the protestant
churches would only live up to their maxim taught by Luther
and established by so many years of war. That maxim
is the right of private interpretation of the scriptures. It was
the foundation of intellectual liberty.</q> (Did Luther say the
foundation of intellectual liberty?) But if a personal interpretation
of the book of Revelation is permissible, how can it
be denied in the case of the book of nature? In the misunderstandings
that have taken place, we must ever bear in mind
the infirmities of men. The generations that immediately followed
the reformation may perhaps be excused for not comprehending
the full significance of cardinal principle, and for not
on all occasions carrying it into effect. When Calvin caused
Servetus to be burnt he was animated, not by the principles of
<pb n='146'/><anchor id='Pg146'/>
the reformation, but by those of Catholicism, from which he
had not been able to emancipate himself completely. And
when the clergy of influential protestant confessions have stigmatized
the investigators of nature as infidels and atheists, the
same may be said. (No man should be called by a name that
does not truthfully represent him.) Now listen to Mr. Draper:
<q>For Catholicism to reconcile itself to science, there are formidable,
perhaps insuperable obstacles in the way. For protestantism
to achieve that great result there are not.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Conflict
Between Religion and Science</hi>, pp. 363, 364. Thus Draper
speaks for himself.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Facts Speak Louder Than Words, Or What Christianity
Has Done For Cannibals.</head>

<p>
The Fijians, a quarter of a century ago, were noted for cannibalism.
The following scrap of history may be of importance
as a shadow to contrast with the sunshine. It is taken
from Wood's History of the Uncivilized Races:
</p>

<p>
The Fijians are more devoted to cannibalism than the New
Zealanders, and their records are still more appalling. A New
Zealander has sometimes the grace to feel ashamed of mentioning
the subject in the hearing of an European, whereas it is
impossible to make a Fijian really feel that in eating human
flesh he has committed an unworthy act. He sees, indeed,
that the white man exhibits great disgust at cannibalism, but
in his heart he despises him for wasting such luxurious food
as human flesh.... The natives are clever enough at
concealing the existence of cannibalism when they find that it
shocks the white men. An European cotton grower, who had
tried unsuccessfully to introduce the culture of cotton into
Fiji, found, after a tolerable long residence, that four or five
human beings were killed and eaten weekly. There was plenty
of food in the place, pigs were numerous, and fish, fruit and
vegetables abundant. But the people ate human bodies as
often as they could get them, not from any superstitious motive,
<pb n='147'/><anchor id='Pg147'/>
but simply because they preferred human flesh to pork....
Many of the people actually take a pride in the
number of human bodies which they have eaten. One chief
was looked upon with great respect on account of his feats of
cannibalism, and the people gave him a title of honor. They
called him the Turtle-pond, comparing his insatiable stomach
to the pond in which turtles are kept; and so proud were they
of his deeds, that they even gave a name of honor to the bodies
brought for his consumption, calling them the <q>Contents of
the Turtle-pond.</q> ... One man gained a great name
among his people by an act of peculiar atrocity. He told his
wife to build an oven, to fetch firewood for heating it, and to
prepare a bamboo knife. As soon as she had concluded her
labors her husband killed her, and baked her in the oven
which her own hands had prepared, and afterward ate her.
Sometimes a man has been known to take a victim, bind him
hand and foot, cut slices from his arms and legs, and eat them
before his eyes. Indeed, the Fijians are so inordinately vain
that they will do anything, no matter how horrible, in order
to gain a name among their people; and Dr. Pritchard, who
knows them thoroughly, expresses his wonder that some chief
did not eat slices from his own limbs.
</p>

<p>
<q>Cannibalism is ingrained in the very nature of the Fijian,
and extends through all classes of society. It is true that
there are some persons who have never eaten human flesh, but
there is always a reason for it. Women, for example, are seldom
known to eat <q>bakolo,</q> as human flesh is termed, and there
are a few men who have refrained from cannibalism through
superstition. Every Fijian has his special god, who is supposed
to have his residence in some animal. One god, for
example, lives in a rat, another in a shark, and so on. The
worshiper of that god never eats the animal in which his
divinity resides, and as some gods are supposed to reside in
human beings, their worshipers never eat the flesh of man.</q>
</p>

<p>
Recent History Of The Same People In Brief.
</p>

<p>
<q>In the Fiji islands, where half a century ago the favorite
dish of food was human flesh, there are at present eight hundred
<pb n='148'/><anchor id='Pg148'/>
and forty-one chapels, and two hundred and ninety-one
other places where preaching is held, with fifty-eight missionaries
busily engaged in preparing the way for others. The
membership numbers twenty-three thousand two hundred and
seventy-four persons.</q> <hi rend='italic'>The Evangelist of January 29, 1880.</hi>
It is possible that some infidel might have been literally
eaten up had it not been for the influence of the Bible. <q>According
to the accounts of some of the older chiefs, whom we
may believe or not as we like, there was once a time when
cannibalism did not exist. Many years ago some strangers
from a distant land were blown upon the shores of Fiji, and
received hospitably by the islanders, who incorporated them
into their own tribes, and made much of them. But, in process
of time, these people became too powerful, killed the
Fijian chiefs, took their wives and property, and usurped
their office.</q>
</p>

<p>
In the emergency the people consulted the priests, who said
that the Fijians had brought their misfortunes upon themselves.
They had allowed strangers to live, whereas <q>Fiji for
the Fijians</q> was the golden rule, and from that time every
male stranger was to be killed and eaten, and every woman
taken as a wife. The only people free from this law were
the Tongans.
</p>

<p>
The state of the Fijians is wonderfully changed&mdash;even an
American infidel may now visit those people without being
flayed and roasted and devoured.
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>The Samoan islands have been entirely christianized.
Out of a population of forty thousand, thirty-five thousand
are connected with Christian churches.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>In 1830 the native Christians in India, Burmah, and North
and South Ceylon numbered 57,000. Last October there
were 460,000. Facts similar in character might be given of
Madagascar, South Africa and Japan.</q> <hi rend='italic'>Evangelist.</hi> What a
curse (?) the Bible is to the poor heathen. It robs them of
their <q>long-pig,</q> human flesh, as well as their cruel, murderous
habits, and curses them (?) with virtue and the hope of
<q><hi rend='smallcaps'>heaven</hi>.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='149'/><anchor id='Pg149'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Are We Simply Animals?</head>

<p>
What is man? The materialist says, <q>He is the highest
order of the animal kingdom, or an animal gifted with intelligence.</q>
If such be true, it may be said with equal propriety,
that animals are men without reason. Are they? Does manhood
consist in mere physical form? Can you find it in simple
physical nature? Man holds many things in his physical
nature in common with the animal; but is he, on this account,
to be considered as a mere animal? There are plants that
seem to form a bridge over the chasm lying between the vegetable
and animal kingdoms. Are those plants animals
without sensation? Why not? What is the logical and
scientific difference between saying plants, which make the
nearest approach to the animal are animals without sensation,
and saying animals are men without intelligence? Let it be
understood at all times, that if man is simply an animal endowed
with the gift of reason, an animal may be simply a
vegetable endowed with the gift of sensation. <q>The bodies of
mere animals are clothed with scales, feathers, fur, wool or
bristles, which interpose between the skin and the elements
that surround and affect the living animal.</q> All these insensible
protectors <q>ally animals more closely to the nature of
vegetables.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>The body of a human being has a beautiful, thin, highly
sensitive skin, which is not covered with an insensitive, lifeless
veil.</q> Man's body is in noble contrast with all mere animals.
It is so formed that its natural position is erect. <q>The eyes
are in front; the ligaments of the neck are not capable of
supporting, for any considerable length of time, the head when
hanging down; the horizontal position would force the blood
to the head so violently that stupor would be the result. The
mouth serves the mind as well as the body itself. According
to the most critical calculation, the muscles of the mouth are
so movable that it may pronounce fifteen hundred letters.</q>
What a wonderful musical instrument.
</p>

<pb n='150'/><anchor id='Pg150'/>

<p>
The mouth of the mere animal serves only physical purposes.
</p>

<p>
Man turns his head from right to left, from earth to sky,
from the slimy trail of the crustacean in the ocean's bottom to
the contemplation of the innumerable stars in the heavens.
The human body was created for the mind; its structure is
correlated with mind. The animal has a sentient life; man
an intelligent, reasoning nature.
</p>

<p>
When animals are infuriated and trample beneath their feet
everything that lies in their way, we do not say they are <emph>insane</emph>,
but <emph>mad</emph>. <q>Man is an intelligent spirit,</q> or mind, <q>served
by an organism.</q> We know that mind exists by our consciousness
of that which passes within us. The propriety of
the sayings of Descartes, <q><emph>I think, therefore I am</emph>,</q> rests upon
the consciousness that we are thinking beings. This intelligence
is not obtained by the exercise of any of the senses. It
does not depend upon external surroundings. Its existence
is a fact of consciousness, of certain knowledge, and hence a
fact in mental science.
</p>

<p>
We are continually conscious of the existence of the mind,
which makes its own operations the object of its own thought;
that it should have no existence is a contradiction in language.
</p>

<p>
Experience teaches us that the materialistic theory of the
existence of the mind is utterly false. In an act of perception
I distinguish the pen in my hand, and the hand itself,
from my mind which perceives them. This distinction is a
fact of the faculty of perception&mdash;a particular fact of a particular
faculty. But the general fact of a general distinction
of which this is only a special case, is the distinction of the <emph>I</emph>
and <emph>not I</emph>, which belongs to the consciousness as the general
faculty. He who denies the contrast between mind-knowing
and matter-known is dishonest, for it is a fact of consciousness,
and such can not be honestly denied. The facts given
in consciousness itself can not be honestly doubted, much less
denied.
</p>

<p>
Materialists have claimed that mind is simply the result of
the molecular action of the brain. This theory is as unreal as
<pb n='151'/><anchor id='Pg151'/>
Banquo's ghost&mdash;it will not bear a moment's investigation. It
is simply confounding the action of the mind upon the brain
with the mind itself. Every effect must have a cause. When
I make a special mental effort what is the cause lying behind
the effort? Is it the molecular action of the brain? I <emph>will
to</emph> make the effort, and do it. Then will power lies behind
brain action. But power is a manifest energy; there is something
lying behind it to which it belongs as an attribute;
what is it? Answer, <emph>will</emph>. But, where there is a <emph>will</emph> there
must of a necessity be that which <emph>wills</emph>. What is it that <emph>wills</emph>
to make a special mental effort&mdash;that lies away back <q>behind
the throne</q> and controls the helm? It is evidently the I,
<emph>myself</emph>, the <q>inner man,</q> <emph>the spirit</emph>. On one occasion, when
some of the disciples of the Nazarene were sleepy, Jesus said
to them, <q>The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.</q>
It is the spirit that <emph>wills</emph> to make a special mental effort.
Here is the <q><emph>font</emph></q> of all our ideas. <q>What man knoweth
the things of a man, save the spirit of man which is in him?</q>
1 Cor., ii, 11. <emph>Will</emph>, as an effect, belongs to the spirit of
man, as <emph>the cause</emph> lying behind. Beyond this no man can
trace this subject, short of crossing over from the spirit of
man to the invisible Father of spirits. The spirit of man is a
<emph>wonderful intelligence</emph>! <q>The body without the spirit is dead,
being alone.</q> When we analyze the physical structure back to
the germ and sperm-cells we are brought face to face with the
invisible builder. Call it what you may, it still remains the
same invisible architect, which, being matter's master, built
the organism. We live, and breathe; we die, and cease
breathing. Dead bodies do not breathe. Therefore, life lies
behind breath, and spirit behind life. So life and breath are
both effects, which find their ultimate or cause in <emph>spirit</emph>.
This at once sets aside all that materialists have said in order
to show that spirit and breath are one and the same. The
original term, translated by the term spirit has, in its history,
away back in the past, a <emph>physical</emph> currency. The old-fashioned
materialist or <q>soul-sleeper</q> finds his fort in this fact.
His entire aim is to get the people back to an old and obsolete
<pb n='152'/><anchor id='Pg152'/>
currency of the term <q><emph>pneuma</emph>.</q> If we lay aside words
which were used in a physical sense, in times gone by, we
will not have many words to express the ideas embraced in
mental science. In ancient times <q><emph>pneuma</emph></q> signified both
mind and wind, or air. In later times it lost its physical currency,
and no longer signifies, in its general currency, breath
or air. The adjective, <q><emph>pneumatikos</emph>,</q> is <emph>never used</emph>
in a physical sense. It came into use too late.
</p>

<p>
We have many examples of old meanings passing away
from words. <q><foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>Sapientia</foreign>,</q> in Latin
originally meant only the power of tasting. At present it means <emph>wisdom</emph>,
<emph>prudence</emph>, <emph>discretion</emph>, <emph>discernment</emph>,
<emph>good sense</emph>, <emph>knowledge</emph>, <emph>practical wisdom</emph>,
<emph>philosophy</emph>, <emph>calmness</emph>, <emph>patience</emph>. The word
<q><foreign rend='italic'>sagacitas</foreign>,</q> originally meant only the faculty
of <emph>scenting</emph>, now it means
the power of seeing or perceiving anything easily. In old
literature we may read of the sagacity of dogs; keenness of
scent. But it is now sharpness of wit; keenness of perception,
subtilty, shrewdness, acuteness, penetration, ingenuity. The
terms, <q>attentio,</q> <q>intentio,</q> <q>comprehensio,</q> <q>apprehensio,</q>
<q>penetratio,</q> and understanding are all just so many bodily
actions transferred to the expression of <emph>mental energies</emph>.
There is just the same reason for giving to all these terms
their old, obsolete, physical currency that there is for giving
to pneuma, or spirit, the old obsolete currency of wind or air.
You must ever remember that it is the business of lexicographers
in giving the history of words, to set before you the
first as well as the latest use of terms. In strict harmony with
all this Greenfield gives <q><foreign rend='italic'>pneuma</foreign></q>
<emph>thus</emph>:
</p>

<p>
1. Wind, air in motion, breathing, breath, expiration,
respiration, spirit, i. e. the human soul, that is, the vital principle
in man, life. Matthew xxvii, 50; Rev. xiii, 15.
</p>

<p>
2. Of the rational soul, mind, that principle in man which
thinks, feels, desires, and wills. Matthew v, 3, 26, 41.
</p>

<p>
3. Of the human soul after its departure from the body, a
spirit, soul. Acts xxiii, 8, 9; Hebrews xii, 23.
</p>

<p>
4. Spc. Spirit, that is, temper, disposition, affections, feelings,
inclination, qualities of mind.
</p>

<pb n='153'/><anchor id='Pg153'/>

<p>
5. Construed with <q><hi rend='italic'>mou</hi></q> and <q><hi rend='italic'>sou</hi></q>
(<emph>I</emph> and <emph>thou</emph>), it
forms a periphrasis for the corresponding personal pronoun.
Mark ii, 8; Luke i, 47. A spirit, that is, <hi rend='smallcaps'>a simple, spiritual,
incorporeal, intelligent being</hi>. Spoken of
God. John iv, 24. Of angels. Hebrews i, 14. Of evil spirits,
Matthew viii, 16; Mark ix, 20. A divine spirit, spoken of
the spiritual nature of Christ. 1 Corinthians xv, 45; 1 Peter
iii, 18. Of the Holy Spirit. Matthew iii, 16-28; John xv, 26;
Acts i, 8; Romans ix, 1.
</p>

<p>
Robinson, in his Lexicon, sums up the history of its use
thus:
</p>

<p>
1. Pneuma, from pneo, to breathe. A breathing, breath.
</p>

<p>
1. Of the mouth or nostrils, a breathing, blast. The destroying
power of God. Isaiah xi, 4; Psalm xxxiii, 6. The
breath. Revelations xi, 11. <q>Breath of life.</q> Genesis vi, 17;
vii, 15-22.
</p>

<p>
2. Breath of air. Air in motion, a breeze, blast, the
wind.
</p>

<p>
3. The spirit of man, that is, the vital spirit, life, soul.
</p>

<p>
4. The rational spirit, mind, soul (Latin
<foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>animus</foreign>), generally
opposed to the body or animal (disposition) spirit. 1
Thessalonians v, 23; 1 Corinthians xiv, 14.
</p>

<p>
5. It implies will, council, purpose. Matthew xxvi, 41;
Mark xiv, 38; Acts xviii, 5; xix, 21; 1 Chronicles v, 26;
Ezra i, 1.
</p>

<p>
6. It includes the understanding, intellect. Mark ii, 8;
Luke i, 80, and ii, 40; 1 Corinthians ii, 11, 12; Exodus
xxviii, 3; Job xx, 3; Isaiah xxix, 24.
</p>

<p>
7. A spirit, that is, a simple, incorporeal, immaterial being,
possessing higher capacities than man in his present state. Of
created spirits, the human spirit, soul, after its departure from
the body and as existing in a separate state. Hebrews xii,
23; that is, to the spirits of just men made perfect. Robinson
renders it thus: <q>To the spirits of the just advanced to
perfect happiness and glory.</q>
</p>

<p>
It is spoken of God in reference to his immateriality. John,
<pb n='154'/><anchor id='Pg154'/>
iv, 24. Of Christ in his exalted spiritual nature in distinction
from his human nature. In Hebrews, ix, 14, in contrast with
perishable nature. <q>The <emph>eternal spirit</emph>,</q> Holy spirit, spirit of
God.&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Robinson's Lexicon.</hi>
</p>

<p>
From all this it will be seen that it is impossible to limit the
term spirit to its ancient <emph>physical</emph> currency. Our term <emph>mind</emph>
is, for two reasons, a better word for its place in modern literature.
First, it never had a physical application. Second, the
terms are used indifferently in the New Testament when they
relate to man. See Romans, i, 9 and vii, 25. All spirits are
<emph>one</emph> in kind; in <emph>character</emph> the difference lies; that is,
spirits are all <emph>imperishable</emph>. It is not in the nature of a spirit to cease
to be. If it is, then there is no imperishable nature that is revealed
to man. I submit for consideration the thought that
there is no difference in the final results between the man who
denies the existence of spirits altogether and the man who
allows that spirits may cease to exist.
</p>

<p>
<q>We are cognizant of the existence of spirit by our direct
consciousness of feelings, desires and ideas, which are to us the
most certain of all realities.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Carpenter.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>The body continually requires new materials and a continued
action of external agencies. But the mind, when it
has been once called into activity and has become stored with
ideas, may remain active and may develop new relations and
combinations among these, after the complete closure of the
sensorial inlets by which new ideas can be excited <q>ab externo.</q>
Such, in fact, is what is continually going on in the
state of dreaming.... The mind thus feeds upon the store of
ideas which it has laid up during the activity of the sensory
organs, and those impressions which it retains in its consciousness
are working up into a never ending variety of combinations
and successions of ideas, thus affording new sources of
mental activity even to the very end of life.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Carpenter.</hi>
</p>

<p>
In death the spirit returns to God, who gave it, retaining,
doubtless, all its store of ideas and all its own inherent activities,
which will continue while eternity endures.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='155'/><anchor id='Pg155'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Our Relations To The Ancient Law And Prophets&mdash;What Are They?</head>

<p>
The above questions can not be answered intelligently without
a knowledge of the character of the law, and of its relations
to humanity, as well as a knowledge of the relations of the
ancient prophets. The law given at Sinai as a <q>covenant,</q>
with all the laws contained in the <q>Book of the Law,</q> was
political in character; that is to say, it pertained to a community
or nation. Such law is <emph>always</emph> political in its character.
The ancient law pertained to the nation of the Jews. It was
given to them as a community, and to no other people.
Moses said, <q>And the Lord spake unto you out of the midst
of fire: Ye heard the voice of the words, but saw no similitude;
only ye heard a voice. And he declared unto you his
covenant, which he commanded you to perform, even ten commandments;
and he wrote them upon two tables of stone.</q>
Deut. iv, 12, 13. <q>And the Lord said unto Moses, Write
thou these words; for after the <emph>tenor</emph> of these words I have
made a covenant <emph>with thee</emph> and <emph>with Israel</emph>....
And he wrote upon the tables <emph>the words of the covenant</emph>, the
ten commandments.</q> Exodus xxxiv, 27, 28. <q>The Lord our
God made a covenant with us in Horeb. The Lord <emph>made
not</emph> this covenant with our fathers, but with us, who <emph>are</emph> all of
us here alive this day.</q> Deut. v, 2, 3. <q>Behold, I have taught
you statutes and judgments, even as the Lord my God commanded
me, that ye should do so in the land whither ye go to
possess it. Keep, therefore, and do them; for this is your
wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the nations,
which shall hear all these statutes, and say, Surely this great
nation is a wise and understanding people. For what nation
is there so great who hath God so nigh unto them, as the
Lord our God is in all things that we call upon him for?
And what nation is there so great that hath statutes and judgments
so righteous as all this law which I set before you this
day.</q> Deut. iv, 5, 8.
</p>

<pb n='156'/><anchor id='Pg156'/>

<p>
The law or covenant, as written upon the two tables of
stone, is given in full in one place, and only one, in all the
book of the law, and I will now transcribe it from the fifth
chapter of Deut. Here it is: <q rend='pre'>I am the Lord, thy God,
which brought thee out of the land of Egypt, from the house
of bondage; thou shalt have none other gods before me; thou
shalt not make thee any graven image, or any likeness of anything
that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath,
or that is in the waters beneath the earth; thou shalt not bow
down thyself unto them or serve them, for I, the Lord, thy
God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers
upon the children unto the third and fourth <emph>generation</emph> of
them that hate me, and showing mercy unto thousands of
them that love me and keep my commandments.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord, thy God, in
vain; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his
name in vain.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Keep the Sabbath day to sanctify it, as the Lord, thy God,
hath commanded thee. Six days shalt thou labor and do all
thy work, but the seventh is the Sabbath of the Lord, thy
God; in it thou shalt not do any work; thou, nor thy son, nor
thy daughter, nor thy maid-servant, nor thine ox, nor thine
ass, nor any of thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy
gates, that thy man-servant and maid-servant may rest as well
as thou; and remember that thou wast a servant in the land
of Egypt, and that the Lord, thy God, brought thee out
thence through a mighty hand and by a stretched out arm;
<hi rend='smallcaps'>therefore, the Lord, thy God, commanded thee to
keep the Sabbath day</hi>.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Honor thy father and thy mother, as the Lord thy God
hath commanded thee; that thy days may be prolonged, and
that it may go well with thee in the land which the Lord thy
God giveth thee.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Thou shalt not kill.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Neither shalt thou commit adultery.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Neither shalt thou steal.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Neither shalt thou bear false witness against thy neighbor.</q>
</p>

<pb n='157'/><anchor id='Pg157'/>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Neither shalt thou desire thy neighbor's wife, neither shalt
thou covet thy neighbor's house, his field, or his man-servant,
or his maid-servant, his ox, or his ass, or any thing that is
thy neighbor's.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>These words the Lord spake unto <emph>all your assembly</emph> in the
mount, out of the midst of the fire, of the cloud and of the
thick darkness, with a great voice; and he <emph>added no more</emph>.
And <emph>he wrote them in two tables of stone</emph>, and delivered them
unto me.</q>
</p>

<p>
This is the covenant as it was written upon the tables of
stone. It is, by its facts, limited to the Jews, for they are
the only people who were ever delivered from bondage in
Egypt. The abrogation of this covenant is clearly presented
in the following language, found in Zechariah, the eleventh
chapter and tenth verse: <q>And I took my staff, even
Beauty, and cut it asunder, that I might break my covenant
which I had made with <emph>all the people</emph>. And it was
broken in that day; and so the poor of the flock that waited
upon me knew that it was the word of the Lord. And I said
unto them, If ye think good, give me my price; and if not,
forbear. So they weighed for my price thirty pieces of silver.</q>
This language had its fulfillment in the sale which Judas
Iscariot made of his Lord and the abrogation of the ancient
covenant or law.
</p>

<p>
The prophets were not confined to the kingdom of Israel,
or to any one kingdom, nor yet to any one dispensation.
</p>

<p>
They bore the word of the Lord to all the nations, as we
learn from such language as this: <q>The burden of the word
of the Lord to Ninevah, to Sidon, to Tyre, to Idumea, to
Babylon, to Samaria, to Egypt,</q> and to many others. It is
very remarkable that no such latitude or longitude of relationships
belongs to the ancient law. It was confined to the
Israelites.
</p>

<p>
The Heavenly Father spake not to the ancients by his Son,
but by the prophets. And much of that which they spake
pertained to our own dispensation and to our own religion.
</p>

<p>
Much, very much, of that which they gave lies in the very
<pb n='158'/><anchor id='Pg158'/>
foundation of our religion. We should always distinguish,
<emph>carefully</emph>, between the Law and the prophets, and between
these two and the psalms, remembering, however, that prophesy
belongs also to many of the psalms. The abrogated
covenant, or law, that was done away, was written upon stones.
It, with all the laws which were after its <emph>tenor</emph>, was supplanted
by the law of Christ. It was added because of transgression
<emph>till Christ, <q>the seed,</q></emph> should come. When he came it expired
by limitation, and through his authority the neighborly restrictions
or limitations were taken off from moral precepts, which
were re-enacted by him.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Funeral Services Of The National Liberal League.</head>

<p>
The decent members of the Liberal League, who formed it
to express their convictions, and who withdrew and formed a
rival League when they found that the old organization had
gone over to the defense of indecency, who gave to the
League all the character it had, and who had great hopes at
one time of destroying the influence of the preachers of the
Gospel of Christ, and thereby ridding our country of that terrible
pest called the Bible, have given up their name. Their
<q>priests</q> have adopted the following arraignment of their
old organization, a legitimate child of their own:
</p>

<p>
<q>Voted that, in the judgment of this Board, the name
<q>National Liberal League</q> has become so widely and injuriously
associated in the public mind with attempts to
repeal the postal laws prohibiting the circulation of obscene
literature by mail, with the active propagandism of demoralizing
and licentious social theories, and with the support of
officials and other public representatives who are on good
grounds believed to have been guilty of gross immoralities,
that it has been thereby unfitted for use by any organization
<pb n='159'/><anchor id='Pg159'/>
which desires the support of the friends of <q>natural morality.</q></q>
</p>

<p>
Thus the child went into a far country and fed among
swine, and, failing to come to itself and return to its father's
house, the old gentleman disinherited it, <emph>once</emph> and forever. A
younger son, however, is christened <q>Liberal Union,</q> and
whether it will remain at home to take care of the old man in
his dotage remains to be seen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Huxley's Paradox.</head>

<p>
<q>The whole analogy of natural operations furnish so complete
and crushing an argument against the intervention of
any but what are called secondary causes, in the production of
all the phenomena of the universe, that, in view of the intimate
relations of man and the rest of the living world, and
between the forces exerted by the latter and all other forces, I
can see no reason for doubting that all are co-ordinate terms
of nature's great progression, from formless to formed, from
the inorganic to the organic, from blind force to conscious intellect
and will.</q> <hi rend='italic'>Huxley's Evidence of Man's Place in Nature</hi>,
London, 1864, p. 107.
</p>

<p>
A writer in the <hi rend='italic'>Spectator</hi> charged Professor Huxley with
Atheism. The professor replies, in the number of that paper
for February 10, 1866, thus: <q>I do not know that I care
very much about popular odium, so there is no great merit in
saying that if I really saw fit to deny the existence of a God
I should certainly do so for the sake of my own intellectual
freedom, and be the honest Atheist you are pleased to say I
am. As it happens, however, I can not take this position
with honesty, inasmuch as it is, and always has been, a favorite
tenet that Atheism is as absurd, logically speaking, as Polytheism.</q>
In the same sheet, he says: <q>The denying the
possibility of miracles seems to me quite as unjustifiable as
Atheism.</q> Is Huxley in conflict with Huxley?
</p>

</div>

<pb n='160'/><anchor id='Pg160'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Triumphing Reign Of Light.</head>

<p>
The next psychic cycle, it seems to me, will witness a
synthesis of thought and faith, a recognition of the fact that
it is impossible for reason to find solid ground that is not consecrated
ground; that all philosophy and all science belong
to religion; that all truth is a revelation of God; that the
truths of written revelation, if not intelligible to reason, are
nevertheless consonant with reason; and that divine agency,
instead of standing removed from man by infinite intervals
of time and space, is, indeed, the true name of those energies
which work their myriad phenomena in the natural world
around us. This consummation&mdash;at once the inspiration of a
fervent religion and the prophecy of the loftiest science&mdash;is
to be the noontide reign of wedded intellect and faith, whose
morning rays already stream far above our horizon.&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Winchell.</hi>
Re. and Sci. p. 84.
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
<q>Experience proves to us that the matter which we regard
as inert and dead, assumes action, intelligence, and
life, when it is combined in a certain way.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Atheist.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>But how does a germ come to live?</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Deist.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>Life is organization with feeling.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Atheist.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>But that you have these two properties from the motion
of</q> dead atoms, or matter alone, it is impossible to give any
proof; and if it can not be proved, why affirm it? Why
say aloud, <q>I know,</q> while you say to yourself, <q>I know
not?</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Voltaire.</hi>
</p>

<milestone unit='tb' rend='rule: 50%'/>

<p>
When you venture to affirm that matter acts of itself by
an eternal necessity, it must be demonstrated like a proposition
in Euclid, otherwise you rest your system only on a
perhaps. What a foundation for that which is most interesting
to the human race!&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Voltaire.</hi>
</p>
</div>
</body>
<back rend="page-break-before: right">
  <div rend="page-break-before: right">
    <divGen type="pgfooter" />
  </div>
</back>
</text>
</TEI.2>
